# React Introduction

## Q: What is `Emmet`?

A: `Emmet` is the essential toolkit for web-developers. It allows you to `type shortcuts` that are then expanded into full pieces of code for writing `HTML and CSS`, based on an abbreviation structure most developers already use that expands into full-fledged HTML markup and CSS rules.

## Q: Difference between a `Library and Framework`?

A: A `library` is a collection of packages that perform specific operations whereas a `framework` contains the basic flow and architecture of an application. The major difference between them is the complexity. Libraries contain a number of methods that a developer can just call whenever they write code. React js is library and Angular is Framework.
The `framework` provides the flow of a software application and tells the developer what it needs and calls the code provided by the developer as required. If a `library` is used, the application calls the code from the library.

## Q: Why is `React known as React`?

A: `React` is named React because of its ability to `react to changes in data`.
React is called React because it was designed to be a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
The name `React` was chosen because the library was designed to allow developers to "react" to changes in state and data within an application, and to update the user interface in a declarative and efficient manner.
`React` is a `JavaScript-based UI development library`. `Facebook` and an `open-source developer community` run it.

## Q: What is difference between `React and ReactDOM`?

A: `React` is a JavaScript library for building User Interfaces whereas `ReactDOM` is also JavaScript library that allows `React to interact with the DOM`.
The react package contains `React.createElement()`, `React.Component`, `React.Children`, and other helpers related to elements and component classes. You can think of these as the isomorphic or universal helpers that you need to build components. The react-dom package contains `ReactDOM.render()`, and in react-dom/server we have server-side rendering support with `ReactDOMServer.renderToString()` and `ReactDOMServer.renderToStaticMarkup()`.

## Q: What is `NPM`?

A: It is a tool used for package management and the default package manager for Node projects. `NPM is installed when NodeJS` is installed on a machine. It comes with a command-line interface (CLI) used to interact with the online database of NPM. This database is called the NPM Registry, and it hosts public and private 'packages.' To add or update packages, we use the NPM CLI to interact with this database.

- `npm` alternative is `yarn`

### How to initialize `npm`?

```
npm init
```

`npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, `npm` takes care of it and creates the `package.json` json file automatically , but without configurations.

## Q: What's the difference between compiler, transpiler, and interpreter?

### Compiler:

- Purpose: A compiler is a tool that translates the entire source code of a program from one programming language (typically a high-level language like C++, Java, or Python) into another language, often a lower-level language like machine code or bytecode. This translation is done all at once, and the resulting output is usually an executable binary or intermediate code.
- Process: The compiler analyzes the entire source code, checks for errors, and generates an output without executing the program. The user can then run the compiled program separately.
- Example: The GCC compiler translates C or C++ source code into machine code.

## Transpiler (Source-to-Source Compiler):

- Purpose: A transpiler is a type of compiler that converts the source code of a program from one high-level programming language into another high-level programming language. The output code is equivalent in functionality but may use a different syntax or language.
- Process: Transpilers operate on the source code, making it more accessible or compatible with a different environment or framework.
- Example: Babel is a JavaScript transpiler that converts modern JavaScript code (ES6 and beyond) into older versions of JavaScript (ES5) for compatibility with older browsers.

## Interpreter:

- Purpose: An interpreter is a tool that directly executes the source code of a program line by line. It reads the source code, translates it into machine code or an intermediate form, and immediately executes the instructions. Interpreters are often used in scripting languages like Python, Ruby, and JavaScript.
- Process: The interpreter does not produce a separate, compiled output like a compiler. It runs the code directly, which can make it slower than compiled code. However, it provides more flexibility for dynamic and interactive environments.
- Example: The Python interpreter reads and executes Python scripts line by line.

## Q: What is `Parcel/Webpack`? Why do we need it?

A: `Parcel/Webpack` is type of a web application bundler used for development and productions purposes or power our application with different type functionalities and features.
It offers blazing fast performance utilizing multicore processing, and requires zero configuration. Parcel can take any type of file as an entry point, but an HTML or JavaScript file is a good place to start.
Parcel/Webpack are type of bundlers that we use to power our application with different type functionalities and features.

### Parcel Features:

- HMR (Hot Module Replacement) - parcel keeps track of file changes via file watcher algorithm and renders the changes in the files
- File watcher algorithm - made with C++
- Minification
- Cleaning our code
- DEV and production Build
- Super fast building algorithm
- Image optimization
- Caching while development
- Compresses
- Compatible with older version of browser
- HTTPS in dev
- Port Number
- Consistent hashing algorithm
- Zero Configuration
- Automatic code splitting

### installation commands:

- Install:

```
npm install -D parcel
```

`-D` is used for development and as a development dependency.

- Parcel Commands :
  - For development build:
  ```
  npx parcel <entry_point>
  ```
  - For production build :
  ```
  npx parcel build <entry_point>
  ```

## Q: What is `.parcel-cache`?

A: `.parcel-cache` is used by parcel(bundler) to reduce the building time.
It stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch. It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.

## Q: What is `npx`?

A: `npx` is a tool that is used to execute the packages. It comes with the npm, when you installed npm above 5.2.0 version then automatically npx will installed. It is an npm package runner that can execute any package that you want from the npm registry without even installing that package.

## Q: What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`?

A: `Dependencies` should contain library and framework in which your app is built on, needs to function effectively. such as Vue, React, Angular, Express, JQuery and etc.
`DevDependencies` should contain modules/packages a developer needs during development.
such as, `parcel, webpack, vite, mocha`.
`These packages` are `necessary only while you are developing your project`, not necessary on production.
To save a dependency as a devDependency on installation we need to do,

```
npm install --save-dev
```

instead of just,

```
npm install --save
```

## Q: What is `Tree Shaking`?

A: `Tree shaking` is process of removing the unwanted code that we do not use while developing the application.
In computing, tree shaking is a dead code elimination technique that is applied when optimizing code.

## Q: What is `Hot Module Replacement`?

A: `Hot Module Replacement (HMR)` exchanges, adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload. This can significantly speed up development in a few ways: Retain application state which is lost during a full reload.

## Q: What is `.gitignore`? What should we `add and not add` into it?

A: The `.gitignore file` is a text file that tells `Git` which files or folders to `ignore` in a project during `commit to the repository`.
The types of files you should consider adding to a .gitignore file are any files that do not need to get committed. for example, For security, the security key files and API keys should get added to the gitignore.
`package-lock.json` should `not add` into your `.gitignore` file.

The entries in this file can also follow a matching pattern.

```
* is used as a wildcard match
/ is used to ignore pathnames relative to the .gitignore file
# is used to add comments to a .gitignore file
```

This is an example of what the .gitignore file could look like:

```
# Ignore Mac system files
.DS_store

# Ignore node_modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore all text files
*.txt

# Ignore files related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```

## Q: What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json`?

A: `package.json`:

- This file is mandatory for every project
- It contains basic information about the project
- Application name/version/scripts

`package-lock.json`:

- This file is automatically generated for those operations where npm modifies either the node_module tree or package-json.
- It is generated after an npm install
- It allows future devs & automated systems to download the same dependencies as the project.
- it also allows to go back to the past version of the dependencies without actual
  ‘committing the node_modules folder.
- It records the same version of the installed packages which allows to reinstall them.
  Future installs will be capable of building identical description tree.

**~** or **^** in `package.json` file :
These are used with the versions of the package installed.

For example in `package.json` file:

```
"dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
  }
```

- **~** : `Approximately equivalent to version`, will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementing the minor version.
- **^** : `Compatible with version`, will update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version.

> If none of them is present, that means only the version specified in `package.json` file is used in the development.

## Q: Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?

A: `package-lock.json` file contains the information about the dependencies and their versions used in the project. Deleting it would cause dependencies issues in the production environment. So don't modify it, It's being handled automatically by NPM.

## Q: What is `node_modules` ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

A: `node_modules` folder like a cache for the external modules that your project depends upon. When you npm install them, they are downloaded from the web and copied into the node_modules folder and Nodejs is trained to look for them there when you import them (without a specific path).
`Don't push node_modules`in github because it contains lots of files(more than 100 MB), it will cost you memory space.

## Q: What is the `dist` folder?

A: The `/dist` folder contains the minimized version of the source code. The code present in the `/dist` folder is actually the code which is used on production web applications. Along with the minified code, the /dist folder also comprises of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with other systems.

## Q: Is `JSX` mandatory for React?

A: `JSX` is an Extension Syntax that allows writing HTML and Javascript together easily in React and is used to create React elements. These elements are then rendered to the React DOM. Each JSX element is just to make use of React easy and for calling React.createElement(component, props, …children) with less work. So, anything that is done with JSX can also be done with just plain JavaScript. So `JSX` is not mandatory but is used for writing better and clean code instead of writing code using `React.CreateElement`.

#### Example of `JSX`

```
const sample = <h2>Greetings</h2>;
```

## Q: What is `JSX`?

A: JSX stands for JavaScript XML.
JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the DOM without any createElement() and/or appendChild() methods.
JSX makes it easier to write and add HTML in React.
JSX converts HTML tags into react elements.

### Example 1 using JSX:

```
const myElement = <h1>I Love JSX!</h1>;
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
```

### Example 2 Without JSX:

```
const myElement = React.createElement('h1', {}, 'I do not use JSX!');
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
```

## Q: Superpowers of `JSX`.

A: Using JSX, you can write markup inside Javascript, providing you with a superpower to write logic and markup of a component inside a single .jsx file. JSX is easy to maintain and debug.

### Example

```
function greeting(user) {
//JSX
  return <h1>{user}, How are you!!!</h1>;
}
```

## Q: Is `ES6` mandatory for React?

A: `ES6` is not mandatory for `React` but is highly recommendable. The latest projects created on React rely a lot on ES6. React uses ES6, and you should be familiar with some of the new features like: Classes, Arrow Functions, Variables(let, const).
ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6. ECMAScript was created to standardize JavaScript, and ES6 is the 6th version of ECMAScript, it was published in 2015.

## Q: How can I write `comments` in JSX?

A: JSX comments are written as follows:

- `{/*  */}` - for single or multiline comments

#### Example

```
{/* A JSX comment */}
{/*
  Multi
  line
  JSX
  comment
*/}
```

## Q: What is `<React.Fragment></React.Fragment>` and `<></>`?

A: `<React.Fragment></React.Fragment>` is a feature in React that allows you to return multiple elements from a React component by allowing you to group a list of children without adding extra nodes to the DOM.
`<></>` is the shorthand tag for `React.Fragment`. The only difference between them is that the shorthand version does not support the key attribute.

#### Example

```
return (
        <React.Fragment>
            <Header />
            <Navigation />
            <Main />
            <Footer />
        </React.Fragment>
    );

return (
        <>
            <Header />
            <Navigation />
            <Main />
            <Footer />
        </>
    );
```

## Q: What is `Reconciliation` in React?

A: `Reconciliation` is the process through which React updates the Browser DOM and makes React work faster. React use a `diffing algorithm` so that component updates are predictable and faster. React would first calculate the difference between the real DOM and the copy of DOM (Virtual DOM) when there's an update of components.
React stores a copy of Browser DOM which is called `Virtual DOM`. When we make changes or add data, React creates a new Virtual DOM and compares it with the previous one. Comparison is done by `Diffing Algorithm`.
React compares the Virtual DOM with Real DOM. It finds out the changed nodes and updates only the changed nodes in Real DOM leaving the rest nodes as it is. This process is called Reconciliation.

## Q: What is `React Fiber`?

A: React Fiber is a concept of ReactJS that is used to render a system faster, smoother and smarter.
The Fiber reconciler, which became the default reconciler for React 16 and above, is a complete rewrite of React’s reconciliation algorithm to solve some long-standing issues in React.
Because Fiber is asynchronous, React can:

- Pause, resume, and restart rendering work on components as new updates come in
- Reuse previously completed work and even abort it if not needed
- Split work into chunks and prioritize tasks based on importance

## Q: Why do we need `keys` in React?

A: A `key` is a special attribute you need to include when creating lists of elements in React. Keys are used in React to identify which items in the list are changed, updated, or deleted. In other words, we can say that keys are unique Identifier used to give an identity to the elements in the lists.
Keys should be given to the elements within the array to give the elements a stable identity.

#### Example

```
<li key={0}>1</li>
<li key={1}>2</li>
<li key={2}>3</li>
```

## Q: Can we use `index as keys` in React?

A: Yes, we can use the `index as keys`, but it is not considered as a good practice to use them because if the order of items may change. This can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with component state.
Keys are taken from each object which is being rendered. There might be a possibility that if we modify the incoming data react may render them in unusual order.

## Q: What is `props in React`? Ways to.

A: props stands for properties. Props are arguments passed into React components. props are used in React to pass data from one component to another (from a parent component to a child component(s)). They are useful when you want the flow of data in your app to be dynamic.

#### Example

```
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <Tool name="name" tool="tool"/> // name and tool are props
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Q: Difference between `Virtual DOM` and `Real DOM`?

A: DOM stands for `Document Object Model`, which represents your application UI and whenever the changes are made in the application, this DOM gets updated and the user is able to visualize the changes. DOM is an interface that allows scripts to update the content, style, and structure of the document.

- `Virtual DOM`
  - The Virtual DOM is a light-weight abstraction of the DOM. You can think of it as a copy of the DOM, that can be updated without affecting the actual DOM. It has all the same properties as the real DOM object, but doesn’t have the ability to write to the screen like the real DOM.
  - Virtual DOM is just like a blueprint of a machine, can do the changes in the blueprint but those changes will not directly apply to the machine.
  - Reconciliation is a process to compare and keep in sync the two files (Real and Virtual DOM). Diffing algorithm is a technique of reconciliation which is used by React.
- `Real DOM`
  - The DOM represents the web page often called a document with a logical tree and each branch of the tree ends in a node and each node contains object programmers can modify the content of the document using a scripting language like javascript and the changes and updates to the dom are fast because of its tree-like structure but after changes, the updated element and its children have to be re-rendered to update the application UI so the re-rendering of the UI which make the dom slow all the UI components you need to be rendered for every dom update so real dom would render the entire list and not only those item that receives the update .

| `Real DOM`                                                       | `Virtual DOM`                                            |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| DOM manipulation is very expensive                               | DOM manipulation is very easy                            |
| There is too much memory wastage                                 | No memory wastage                                        |
| It updates Slow                                                  | It updates fast                                          |
| It can directly update HTML                                      | It can’t update HTML directly                            |
| Creates a new DOM if the element updates.                        | Update the JSX if the element update                     |
| It allows us to directly target any specific node (HTML element) | It can produce about 200,000 Virtual DOM Nodes / Second. |
| It represents the UI of your application                         | It is only a virtual representation of the DOM           |
